# pwgen

Simple password generator script to balance ease of typing and password security.
Inserts non-alphanumeric characters at random indexes to decrease effectiveness of rule-based attacks.

## Usage

```py
python3 pwgen.py
```

The script is a simple python input loop that prompts for a number of passwords to generate.

```
[info] loaded 2330 words

number of passwords to generate (q to quit): 3
sTrinGunc577o*=/vergalaxy
OniOns%|trangeim230press
inpUTu963Ps|(etcanVas

number of passwords to generate (q to quit): q
```

## Purpose

This script was specifically designed to create secure passwords that were not very inconvenient to type. Of course, this comes with slight compromises, but the security of the passwords is still strong.

The simplest password generators will generate `n` random characters, but these passwords aren't exactly usable: they are hard to type and even harder to remember.

Passphrases certainly have their advantages but the format `word1-word2-word3` is quite succeptible to rule-based attacks.

The passwords generated by this script are specifically designed to
	1. Prevent trivial rule-based attacks
	2. Avoid using a single rule so that a compromised password cannot help to crack more passwords
	3. Be easier to type than 15 random characters

## Notes

The very short wordlist was provided to hashcat with the [One Rule to Rule Them All](https://github.com/NotSoSecure/password_cracking_rules) and none of the ~1000 hashes were cracked.

Brute force methods are not realistic due to C(85, 19) possible combinations (52 alpha, 10 digits, 23 special).

C(85, 19) ≈ 4.25e18

Using a SHA256 hash benchmark of 3270 MH/s on an NVIDIA 10-series GPU:

4.25e18/3.27e9 ≈ 1.3e9 seconds ≈ 41 years

Wolfram tells me this is a quarter of the orbital period of Neptune[!](https://www.wolframalpha.com/input?i=1.29969418960244648318042813455657492354740061162079510703363+%C3%97+10%5E9+seconds)

And this is only the lower bound (15 character passphrase + 4 extra characters)


#### PS

Of course, you should probably just use a password manager :)

<sub><sup>as long as they don't get breached</sup></sub>
